One question was, can we say that creating
state machines like this is the JavaScript
implementation of the good
old state design pattern?
And so the short answer is yes.
The state pattern, if you remember
your gang of four design patterns,
the state pattern is very similar
to a finite state machine.
So in the state pattern if you don't know,
a state pattern defines an object
that can change its behavior.
And so for example, in this application,
if we were to represent this as a class,
we might have a loading behavior,
which is going to be a separate function
that describes this is what
should happen when I'm loading.
But we're also giving it the ability
to change behaviors as well.
One good way that you could do
this in your app and sort of get
closer to that state design pattern
is by separating this in a function.
So let's say we have this case,
let's go over here.
So we have this, if event type is loaded,
return the playing state.
Otherwise, we just want to
return the normal state.
And so we could have something
like function loading behavior in
which we know that if we're
in this loading behavior,
we're going to have
the state value as loading.
And so
instead of having to switch on the state,
we could just pop this function in.
And so we could just cut this,
put there, otherwise return the state.
And so now over here we could just
return loadingBehavior(state, event).
So like I said, this gets closer
to that state design pattern.
The only difference between this state's
design pattern and using a finite state
machine is that the state design pattern
says the machine, or sorry, the class or
object, or whatever you wanna call it,
can change its behavior at will.
With finite state machines, the only way
a behavior can change is due to an event.
And I promise you that's a lot
more flexible than it sounds.
But it's a good constraint to keep
in mind, that you shouldn't be
arbitrarily changing behavior, but
instead make it due to events.
So yea, if you want to refactor this
as a separate behavior function,
then that's definitely one way to do it.
Does XState allow you to import
state machines written in SCXML
as XState compatible state machines and
export them to, or
as SCXML state machines for
state machine related tools in libraries?
So yeah,
that's jumping ahead a little bit.
But by SCXML,
this is a a specification by the W3C.
And it's a state machine
notation that is represented,
as you probably guessed, in XML.
And so this standard, if you read
it all in, it's a pretty big read,
it is going to feel very close to XState,
and that's on purpose.
XState implements SCXML and
the algorithms.
And one of the long-term goals of XState
is to be compatible with SCXML in general.
Currently, we do import SCXML
internally for a lot of testing, but
there aren't public-facing features
that allow you to do this easily.
But it is definitely possible.
So the takeaway from this question is,
if you really want to understand
what XState is about more in-depth,
I really recommend you read the W3
specification for state chart XML.
You're going to find a lot of
things in common with XState and
this SCXML notation and
see inspiration for a lot of XState's API.
The question was, is there a reason
to name the events in all caps, or
as I like to call it screaming case?
The short answer is no,
you don't need to do it.
I like doing it just because it's a visual
differentiator between states and events.
I know something is an event because
it's something that's screaming at me.
So I could just quickly scan the page and
see, that's an event because
it's all in uppercase.
But there is no reason
that you have to do this.
And even myself, I'm finding
myself writing lowercase events,
like pause,
more frequently in my applications.
I think the uppercase events name was
just something that was started by
libraries and Redux, and it became
sort of an unofficial convention.
If you don't wanna use uppercase,
you don't have to.
It's not a restriction in XStates or
pretty much anything.
There's nothing that's checking that
all of your state names are uppercase.
However, I will say that for
future versions of XState,
what you should do is like,
if you have events that can
really be described within
a group of events, so
let's say that we have audio paused.
I really recommend that you
separate it with a dot.
And that's the one convention that's
actually going to be really useful.
Because in the future, and this is
XState version 5, not XState version 4,
you're going to be able to
specify wildcard events.
And so this basically handles any
event that starts with his audio dot.
And the delimiter is the dot, so
this is also specified in SCXML.
So that convention I would recommend,
the uppercase convention,
you can have your own preference on that.
There was a comments that we
do have a Stately Discord.
And for all questions related
to state machines, state charts,
the actor model, events-driven
architecture, software modeling,
and also the tools that we release, it's
at discord.gg/xstate, open invitation.
I highly recommend that you join this
Discord because we are extremely
responsive in there and wanna help
everyone with all their problems.
And there's also so many good ideas and
sources of inspiration in the Discord.
So if you have any questions or
you just wanna chat,
feel free to join the Stately Discord,
again, at discord.gg/xstate.
The question online was, what about
naming the actual states over here?
How do we determine what these
states should be named?.
And so for the states,
I have two general guidelines.
First, you should name it
based on what is happening.
And you should also name it based
on what the behavior should be.
So as long as you choose any of those,
or ideally a combination of both,
you should be safe.
So for example, in this state
we're asking, what's happening?
Well, the song is loading.
And now we're asking,
what's happening over here?
The song is playing.
And we're asking, what's happening here?
The song is paused.
If we were to model something else,
like, for
example let's say that we're
modeling drag and drop, but
we're locking to the x-axis or
y-axis so you can't move it freely.
You could only move it on one of the axes.
Then we might have something like,
I call it x-axis lock.
And so now, this isn't exactly
describing what's happening,
it's describing a behavior instead.
So this x-axis lock is a state that
says any event that happens here,
we have to lock any positional
changes to the x-axis.
So again, this is a demonstration
of what's happening or
what the behavior should be.
And so that's how you should
describe your states.
Can a state receive multiple
events at the same time?
How does the state transition
to the next state?
And so with state machines and
state charts,
the idea is that you always
receive events one at a time.
So for example, let's say that we spammed
this machine in the loading state with
five instances of loaded, all being sent
at the same time, for whatever reason.
Let's say that one of our services
is just behaving badly and
has some race conditions or something.
And we just get multiple
events at the same time.
So what should happen is those
events should be queued up.
So we have a queue of events and
we pop from the queue each time and
we say, okay,
let's handle these events one at a time.
So in the loading state, we're only going
to handle one event, which is loaded,
we transition.
And once we're on this state,
this all happens immediately, by the way,
once we're on that state, then
the next loaded event will do nothing.
Because we're in the playing state and
the loaded transition does
not exist on that state.
So in summary,
events are handled one at a time, always.